# Toward Improvement of At-home Pediatric Sleep Apnea-Hypopnea Testing A Multi-modal Transformer Approach

abstract: 
Sleep plays a crucial role in human health; however, respiratory events such as apnea and hypopnea mostly have an adverse effect on sleep quality. The current practice of sleep disorders diagnosis and assessment is still done by clinicians. Automating this labour-intensive and tedious job decreases the cost of diagnosis and treatment and frees up a lot of time and effort from sleep experts. In machine learning for health, pediatric sleep is still under-studied compared to adults. Moreover, most of the studies use ECG signals while ignoring other modalities. In this work, we propose a transformer-based model that automatically detects respiratory events in overnight Polysomnography. We have also done extensive experiments investigating different modalities' prediction power for pediatric sleep apnea-hypopnea detection. Then we trained multimodal apnea-hypopnea detector models using different combinations of signal modalities available in Polysomnography to find the most optimal combination of signals for apnea-hypopnea detection in terms of performance and acquisition convenience. We offer a set of models that predict pediatric apnea-hypopnea with any combination of signals modality existing in polysomnography. Besides, our experiments show the superior performance of our model in pediatric apnea-hypopnea detection compared with other state-of-the-art approaches proposed in the literature.
